---
title: EP 1. The Cultural, Business, and Historical Impact of AI
layout: post
categories: []
type: main # I use this to split main episodes to extra ones
description: On today's episode Meenakshi Malkar meets with guests Mary Sharp and Brandon Guerrero to discus AI's impact on culture and businees. We have a chat with a caller from our audience, John Dorion. Our cohost Sarah  meets with, Jonathan Hampton and John Dorion, AI technology experts to discuss the history of AI.
file: https://podcast.johndorion.com//assets/audio/mindsandmachines_episode1.mp3 #Link to your .mp3 file
length: "14:30" # mm:ss
videoid: bKPP20rvp3s #Copy here only the id of your YouTube video
---

# Podcast Summary
On today's episode of Minds and Machines, host Meenakshi Malkar talks to guests Mary Sharp and Brandon Guerrero about AI's impact on business and culture, and we take a call from the audience. In the second half of the show, cohost Sarah (Mary Sharp) talks to two tech experts, John Dorion, and Jonathan Hampton, about the history of AI.

## Part 1
In part 1, Meenakshi, Mary, and Brandon discuss a video from Jubilee titled 6 Humans vs. 1 Secret AI. In the video, players are supposed to judge their fellow members based on text messages sent to a group chat to figure out which group chat member is an AI. The AI convinced several people it was human before being eliminated. The AI's ability to mimic human speech surprised everyone on today's episode .


Mary Sharp also talks about the use of AI in the media industry, where it is being used to produce covers voiced by AI models of other artists. Brandon Guerrero talks about new AI-powered features in social media, such as Snapchat's My AI.


Later on, Mary and Brandon discuss AI's use in science. Such as AI being used to generate part models for NASA and AI's use in cancer research.


Meenakshi takes a caller from the audience to discuss AI and the Jubilee video. Caller, John Dorion, raises some interesting questions about AI's effect on the job market and the ethics of using AI-generated media.

## Part 2
In part 2, cohost Sarah and tech experts John and Jonathan discuss the history of AI development.


Jonathan discusses early computing pioneers like John Von Neumann and Alan Turing, as well as the inventors of the mathematical neuron model, Warren McCulloch and Walter Pitts.


John talks about Alan Turing's work in computers, cryptography, AI, and Author Samuels, the first AI that could independently play a game. (of checkers) John also discusses the start of machine learning by talking about Shakey, the robot.


Sarah shares some statistics about businesses' growing interest in AI technology.

## Closing
We end the podcast today by requesting a statement from our guests on what they think AI technology companies could do to improve their products.

<br>

<details><summary>Transcript</summary>

Main Host(Meenakshi): Welcome to Minds and Machines with Meenakshi. We're going to start the show by talking about AI's impact on business and culture and in the second half we'll focus on the history of artificial intelligence. I'd like to introduce our two guests for our first segment: Brandon Guerrero and Mary Sharp.


<br>
Guest 1(Mary): Thank you. We are excited to be a part of this.


<br>
Guest 2(Brandon): Thank you so much for having us.


<br>
Main Host (Meenakshi): Our topic for today is AI which has taken the whole world by storm. Do any of you know much about it?


<br>
Guest 2:(Brandon) I've seen it on social media, and I watched a video on YouTube from Jubilee where they blindfolded 5 people, and they had to guess who the AI was based off text messages in a group chat. It was pretty wild if you ask me.


<br>
Guest 1(Mary): I saw that video too! They eliminated multiple people before they eliminated the actual AI. The AI was so good at sending responses that were more human like than robot like. It was fun to watch, and I was so surprised by the results.


<br>
Main Host (Meenakshi): For our listeners at home who might not know what we're referring to, AI or Artificial Intelligence is a computer's ability to respond like a human, generate documents and data, or mimic human emotions. This technology is so advanced that you can type in a topic for an essay, and it will form a whole report for you. Even going as far as giving you multiple options to choose from.


<br>
Main Host (Meenakshi): This brings me to my next question. How do you guys feel about AI? Like do you guys think that it is cool technology or that it’s creepy?


<br>
Guest 1(Mary): Personally, I think it is awesome and is a huge tech advancement. It has recently been used on social media to change singers of song. Like it can make Beyoncé sing a Taylor Swift song and the voice is spot on. Yes, it is kind of creepy that it can take a Mariah Carey song and make Rihanna sing it, but overall, it's pretty interesting.


<br>
Guest 2(Brandon): Yeah, I must agree. I have seen a few TikTok videos of song covers using AI, and it is interesting how the AI can mimic someone's specific voice. I’ve also heard of sites such as ChatGPT that answer questions in seconds. There is also a new Snapchat feature centered around AI. It’s called “My AI” and you can literally text it anything and it will respond immediately.


<br>
Main Host (Meenakshi): Do you guys know of any examples of how AI is being used in the real world?


<br>
Guest 1(Mary): I was reading a NY Times article the other day and came across a list of examples of real-life people utilizing AI in their work and personal lives. It consisted of everything from small tasks like asking AI to help plan a birthday party or give you meal plan ideas to huge projects like creating parts for spaceships.


<br>
Ryan McClelland, a NASA research engineer, used AI to create parts for his project and the AI actually ended up creating a much more efficient model than what a human can make in a much shorter time frame. I find it absolutely fascinating that some of our greatest minds are also using AI to help better their lives.


<br>
Guest 2(Brandon): That’s actually awesome! Who would have thought even NASA engineers are using AI. I read somewhere that AI is becoming really popular in the Healthcare industry.


<br>
Main Host (Meenakshi): Wait really? How so?


<br>
Guest 2(Brandon): AI basically helps analyze medical data and detect diseases. It has even been helping with cancer research and finding treatments by identifying specific cancer cells. I’m really excited to see what else AI can accomplish in the next few years.


<br>
Main Host (Meenakshi): It seems as though the two of you are in full support of what AI has to offer. Are there any concerns that you guys might have for its advancements as well?


<br>
Guest 1(Mary): A concern that I have about its development is people becoming too reliant on it.


<br>
Main Host (Meenakshi): Can you elaborate?


<br>
Guest 1(Mary): Sure, I know multiple people who take advantage of this technology and use it for their own personal gain. I believe that we will see a decline in work ethic amongst individuals. People might become less honest with their work, resume, and schoolwork.


<br>
Guest 2(Brandon): I see where you are coming from, but I do not think everyone will do that because if a person has true integrity, they won't accept taking the easy way out. Truly, Who does AI hurt? It is not really an issue that will harm society even though it is wrong.  There are bigger issues in the world than worrying about if someone used AI for their history homework.


<br>
Guest 1(Mary): You make a good point, but I am still siding with AI. This is still a real issue that needs to be investigated further.
Nevertheless, it is such a dope concept, and I cannot wrap my head around how much time it must take the developers of it to make it work so well. Technology has come a long way from how it was in the past. AI is the future of the world.


<br>
Main Host (Meenakshi): We are going to go ahead and take on a caller. *Rings* Thank you for calling the Minds and Machines Podcast, whom do I have the pleasure of speaking with?


<br>
Caller(John): Thank you for answering.  My name is John Dorion. It is an honor to be a part of this!


<br>
Main Host (Meenakshi): It’s a pleasure to have you. The topic for the day is AI technology. We have heard some great opinions on the topic and would like to hear yours. So how do you feel about the use of Artificial Intelligence?


<br>
Caller (John): To answer your question, I like the idea of AI. I know some people think AI will take over the world and we will not have any jobs, but there are plenty of jobs that could never be replaced by AI technology and many jobs where AI can be used as a complimentary tool.


<br>
Main Host (Meenakshi): Can you name a few of those jobs if you do not mind me asking?


<br>
Caller(John): Yeah, I don't mind at all. Some of the positions that would be hard to replace are skilled tradespeople, construction workers, teachers, psychologists, and food service workers. Other people in careers like law, medicine, programmers and data analysts will integrate new technology so that their work can become more efficient. Technology can cause career displacement, but it often leads to new careers as well and there will always be flaws that need to be fixed or maintained by humans. I think AI could be massively beneficial if used correctly.


<br>
Guest 1(Mary): Most Definitely!


<br>
Main Host (Meenakshi): That does remind me of the point Mary was making earlier though about how people can be too reliant on AI. I read a news story a few days ago about how two lawyers used ChatGPT to help build their case but ChatGPT generated completely fake cases! The judge ended up issuing a $5,000 fine to the attorneys.


<br>
Main Host (Meenakshi): Anyway, on to lighter topics. Earlier Brandon and Mary mentioned a video from Jubilee. About a gameshow in which a group of people had to choose which member of their group chat was an AI. Have you seen this video?


<br>
Caller(John): I've seen it and it was pretty interesting.


<br>
Main Host (Meenakshi): Do any of you personally think you would have guessed who the AI was? Or do you think you would have been tricked by it as well?


<br>
Guest 2(Brandon): I honestly believe I would have been fooled. The responses from the AI in the chat were so humanlike it was crazy. It sounded more human than the actual humans. Hence the fact that multiple people got eliminated before it.


<br>
Guest 1(Mary): Yeah, I agree. The responses were not too generic or over-emotional, so I would have been tricked as well. I never expected an AI to answer questions so efficiently.


<br>
Main Host (Meenakshi): How about you John? Think you could've guessed which one wasn’t a person?


<br>
Caller(John): I think I would have a hard time picking and it raises interesting questions about how AI could be used unethically to imitate people in text, audio, or video.


<br>
Main Host (Meenakshi): Yeah, they probably would've had me fooled as well. Thank you, John, Brandon, and Mary for sharing your opinions. Once again John, we thank you for being here! Have a nice rest of your day!


<br>
Caller(John): Thank you for having me! Bye guys.


<br>
Main Host (Meenakshi): If anyone else wants to see how well they can detect which person in the group chat is an AI, we've got the YouTube video in our show notes.


(History Segment)


<br>
Main Host (Meenakshi): Onto our next section! I think now is the perfect time to tell you all more about the creation, history, and advancements of Artificial Intelligence. This segment will be led by my co-host Sarah.


<br>
Host #2 (Sarah (Mary)): Hi everyone, my name is Sarah, and I am the cohost of Minds and Machines. Now, I have much more to learn about Artificial Intelligence, which is why I've invited tech experts *inserts name *inserts name, to tell us all more about it. Thank you both for being here!


<br>
Technologist 1 (Jonathan): Thank you for having us.


<br>
Technologist 2 (John): It’s a pleasure to be here.


<br>
Host #2 (Sarah (Mary)): Alright guys, let's dive in. Tell us more about the history of AI, who are its creators?


<br>
Technologist 1 (Jonathan): The development of Artificial Intelligence can be seen as a building block. When it comes to science and technology, researchers build upon already discovered information. But There are a vast number of talented individuals to be credited with the early development of Artificial Intelligence. John Von Neumann (Newman) and Alan Turing were some of the pioneers in early computer technology, without them AI would surely not exist today. People such as Warren McCulloch ( Kulok) and Walter Pitts created the first mathematical neuron model in 1943. John Mccarthy would later be the gentleman accredited with branding the term AI; who defines AI as the science and engineering of making intelligent machines.


<br>
Technologist 2 (John): As far as the timeline of Artificial Intelligence, there's been a long chain of events leading up to the development of Modern Day AI. In 1942 Thanks to Alan Turing and his brilliance for computers and cryptography the allies were able to crack the Enigma code. in 1950 Turing went on to create a test for Artificial intelligence. Another early AI developer, a computer scientist known as Author Samuels developed a program to play checkers, in 1952. It was the first AI that learned how to play a game independently.


<br>
Host #2 (Sarah (Mary)): There have been drastic improvements in technology throughout the years. I guess I didn’t realize the advancements Artificial Intelligence has had throughout time.

<br>
Technologist 1 (Jonathan): Most definitely, most people don’t consider that information systems once had some of the most basic designs.

<br>
Host #2 (Sarah (Mary)): So, at what point in time do we see the development of some of the forms of AI, we see today?

<br>
Technologist 2 (John): The time of its creation was during the 1950s-1960s. During the late 60s we begin to see improvements in machine learning. Shakey the robot developed by the Artificial Intelligence Center at the Stanford Research Insitute was one if not the first AI-based mobile robot to accomplish a task without the need for step-by-step instructions.

<br>
Technologist 1 (Jonathan): We also must consider the fact that the US was reluctant to provide funding for AI development, this was due to discoveries not being as impressive as promised. Which why our society didn’t see a spark of its development until around the late 1900s. This is why developers created inventions such as a self-driving cars that could travel at a speed of 55mph, speech recognition software, and robots that were able to simulate human emotions.

<br>
Host #2 (Sarah (Mary)): It seems as though there wasn’t a boom in AI until recently?

<br>
Technologist 2 (John): That's correct! Though AI systems have been around for decades, the forms of Modern AI we interact with was only developed a few years ago. They're more commonly referred to as large language models due to their ability to mimic human speech.

<br>
Technologist 1 (Jonathan): One of the most commonly used form of AI was launched by Apple in 2011, We know this program as Siri.

<br>
Host 2 (Sarah (Mary)) And it seems that companies aren't slowing down when it comes to investing in and developing AI technology. According to CompTIA (Comp - Tea - Uh), an IT certifications & training company, "35% of companies are using AI and 42% of companies are exploring AI for..." use in the future. "91.5% of leading businesses invest in AI on an ongoing basis."

<br>
Host 2 (Sarah (Mary)): Alright let's get back together and go over the final group question.

<br>
(Closing Remarks)

<br>
Main Host (Meenakshi): Welcome back Host 2! Hope you learned a lot about the history of AI.

<br>
Host 2 (Sarah (Mary)): Thanks! I did, I learned all about computers and technology through the ages. We talked about everything from the first people to develop the idea of a computer to the first person to think about neural networks. We even learned about an early AI that could play checkers!

<br>
Main Host (Meenakshi): Neat! Ok, that brings me to my final question of this session for all our guests today. In what ways do you think AI technology should be improved and why? There are no wrong answers to this. I would like to hear everyone’s perspective on it.

<br>
Guest 2 (Brandon): I would say keeping it up to date with the current trends and phrases would make it more efficient. This will definitely improve how accurate the data and responses are.

<br>
Tech 1 (Jonathan):   I would just add that I think developers should monitor the performance of it more closely to catch the flaws in the data. It’s already pretty much perfect and extraordinary. I hope to see more ways it can be used in the future.

<br>
Tech 2 (John): I think that AI could be improved by working with a regulatory body to help control its development and scope. AI technology is very important and should be guided as such.

<br>
Main Host (Meenakshi): That concludes our podcast for today. Thank you for tuning in. We hope you enjoyed learning about AI, it's history, cultural, and business significance as much as we did. Make sure to give us a subscribe and follow so you can be sure to catch our next upload. Or maybe you can ask your AI to set a reminder for you!


</details>
<details><summary>Sources</summary>
Anderson, M. (2023, May 8). “Ai pause” open letter stokes fear and controversy. IEEE Spectrum. https://spectrum.ieee.org/ai-pause-letter-stokes-fear#toggle-gdpr
<br>
Biswal, A. (2023, May 26). 7 types of artificial intelligence that you should know in 2023. Simplilearn.com. https://www.simplilearn.com/tutorials/artificial-intelligence-tutorial/types-of-artificial-intelligence
<br>
Claburn, T. (2023, June 22). Lawyers who cited fake cases invented by CHATGPT must pay. The Register® - Biting the hand that feeds IT. https://www.theregister.com/2023/06/22/lawyers_fake_cases/
<br>
Copeland, B. J. (n.d.). Alan Turing and the beginning of ai. Encyclopædia Britannica. https://www.britannica.com/technology/artificial-intelligence/Alan-Turing-and-the-beginning-of-AI
<br>
Council of Europe. (n.d.). History of artificial intelligence - artificial intelligence - www.coe.int. Artificial Intelligence. https://www.coe.int/en/web/artificial-intelligence/history-of-ai#:~:text=1940%2D1960%3A%20Birth%20of%20AI%20in%20the%20wake%20of%20cybernetics&text=Just%20before%2C%20a%20first%20mathematical,Pitts%20as%20early%20as%201943
<br>
CrashCourse. (2019, December 27). The Future of Artificial Intelligence: Crash course AI #20. YouTube. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=T7Rv4tGRlfc&t=23s
<br>
Dilmegani, C. (2019, April 10). In-depth guide to future of AI in 2023, according to top experts. AIMultiple. https://research.aimultiple.com/future-of-ai/
<br>
Fun Ai Tools. Easy With AI. (n.d.). https://easywithai.com/fun-ai-tools/
<br>
The future of AI: How Artificial Intelligence Will Change the world. Built In. (n.d.). https://builtin.com/artificial-intelligence/artificial-intelligence-future
<br>
Jubilee. (2023, March 29). 6 humans vs 1 secret AI. YouTube. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bKPP20rvp3s
<br>
Lett, P., & Ashkenas, J. (2023, June 1). We spoke with 5 people who work with A.I. Here’s what keeps them up at night. The New York Times. https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2023/06/01/opinion/ai-technology-future.html
<br>
McKinsey & Company. (2023, April 24). What is ai?. McKinsey & Company. https://www.mckinsey.com/featured-insights/mckinsey-explainers/what-is-ai
<br>
Nickson, R. (2023, March 25). I made a Kanye song with Ai - Music is forever changed. YouTube. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2sMpIXQcSCA&ab_channel=RobertoNickson
<br>
Palokangas, E. (2023, May 23). How much does ai cost? what to consider. Scribe. https://scribehow.com/library/cost-of-ai#:~:text=for%20AI%20solutions%3F-,On%20average%2C%20companies%20can%20expect%20to%20pay%20anywhere%20from%20%240,on%20the%20consultant’s%20hourly%20fee
<br>
Paris, F., & Buchanan, L. (2023, April 14). 35 ways real people are using A.I. Right Now. The New York Times. https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2023/04/14/upshot/up-ai-uses.html
<br>
Pio, L., & Cury, C. (2023, June 21). 15 artificial intelligence pros and cons that you need to know. Rock Content. https://rockcontent.com/blog/artificial-intelligence-pros-and-cons/
<br>
Q.ai - Powering a Personal Wealth Movement. (2022, December 2). The Pros and cons of Artificial Intelligence. Forbes. https://www.forbes.com/sites/qai/2022/12/01/the-pros-and-cons-of-artificial-intelligence/?sh=3737cef54703
<br>
Roos, D. (2023, June 6). 8 jobs AI will replace and 8 it won’t (yet). HowStuffWorks. https://electronics.howstuffworks.com/future-tech/jobs-ai-will-replace.htm
<br>
Singh, N., Tyagi, A., & Ayyagari, N. (2023, May 21). The timeline of artificial intelligence - from the 1940s. Verloop.io. https://verloop.io/blog/the-timeline-of-artificial-intelligence-from-the-1940s/#enigma-was-broken-using-ai-19
<br>
Swoyer, A. (2023, June 1). New York lawyers face sanctions for using chat GPT for legal research, citing fake cases. The Washington Times. https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2023/jun/1/new-york-lawyers-face-sanctions-using-chat-gpt-leg/
<br>
Tomar, D. (2023, May 22). Controversial topic: Artificial intelligence. Academic Influence. https://academicinfluence.com/inflection/controversial-topics/controversial-topic-artificial-intelligence
<br>
Top 21 applications of Artificial Intelligence in 2023. TechEmergent. (2023, June 23). https://techemergent.com/applications-of-artificial-intelligence/
<br>
Watters, A. (2023, January 13). 30+ artificial intelligence statistics and facts for 2023. Default. https://connect.comptia.org/blog/artificial-intelligence-statistics-facts
<br>
Western Governors University. (2022, April 25). All the benefits of Artificial Intelligence. Western Governors University. https://www.wgu.edu/blog/benefits-artificial-intelligence2204.html#close
</details>

<br>

## Credits
Podcast Hosts & Guests: John Dorion, Brandon Guerrero, Jonathan Hampton, Meenakshi Malkar, Mary Sharp

<br>

Script Writers & Researchers: Sheyanne Barr, Elysia Carson, Charlie Do, John Dorion, Jonathan Hampton, Walter Horton, Meenakshi Malkar, Alisha McCoy, Ebony Wells

<br>

Website & Audio Editing: John Dorion
